# DXR, A Code Search and Cross-Reference Tool


## Introduction
DXR is a source code browser and search engine, building on the work of LXR and
MXR. It supports full-text and regex searches as well as structural queries
like "Find all the callers of this function." Behind the scenes, it uses
trigram indices, the re2 library, and static analysis data collected by
instrumented compilers. DXR runs only on Linux for the moment.


## Documentation
DXR is fairly well documented, so whether you're looking to **deploy** DXR,
**write plugins** or **templates** for DXR have a look at the `docs/` folder.
The documents in this folder is a great starting point for anybody who wants
to deploy and/or develop DXR.


## Quick Start
To try out DXR on a HelloWorld-size project...

    git clone --recursive git://github.com/mozilla/dxr.git
    cd dxr  # (the top level of the repository, not the dxr folder within it)

    # If you want to customize VM configuration for your environment, run the
    # line below, and change the settings you need, e.g. turning off NFS:
    cp vagrantconfig_local.yaml-dist vagrantconfig_local.yaml

    vagrant up
    vagrant ssh

On the VM...

    cd ~/dxr
    make
    cd ~/dxr/tests/test_basic
    make
    dxr-serve.py target

Then, on your host box, surf to http://33.33.33.77:8000/, and poke around to
your heart's content. You may have to substitute the IP address of your Vagrant
machine.

Please note that the vagrant image is built against virtualbox
4.2.0. If your version is older, the image might not work as expected.


### Troubleshooting

If, after trying a search, you see the error...

    Server Error
    .....
    Database error: no such module: trilite

SSH into the VM and, run `ldconfig` as root to sort out the shared library
linking problem. Then restart `dxr-serve.py`, and all should work as expected.


## Installing on a Real Machine

*dxr requires exactly llvm-3.2 to build. Anything newer or older will break the
build.*

To install DXR on a machine of your choice, do the following

1. Install the dependencies in `docs/deployment.mkd`.

2. You can either install dxr at the system level (requires root) or inside a
   [virtualenv](http://www.virtualenv.org/en/latest/) which is the recommended
   way.
   * For a system-level install, run `python2.6 setup develop` (to hack on DXR
     itself) or `python2.6 setup.py install` to install it.
   * The recommended way is to install it as an unprivileged (non-root) user.
     For this, use [virtualenv](http://www.virtualenv.org/en/latest/):

             virtualenv my-dxr-env
             source my-dxr-env/bin/activate  # You'll have to repeat this line each time
                                             # you want to use DXR in a new shell.
             pip install -r requirements.txt
             python setup.py develop         # Magic path munging will make this the
                                             # copy of Python in the virtualenv.

4. Next, you need to build the various binaries that `dxr` needs. Running
   `make` at the top level should do the needful.
   * It should build the `libtrilite.so` library inside the `trilite` directory.
   * It should build the `libclang-index-plugin.so` inside the
     `dxr/plugins/clang` directory. You might have to edit the `makefile` in
     that directory to make the locations of `llvm-config`, `clang` and
     `clang++` accurate. As mentioned earlier, the compile will succeed only
     with exactly llvm/clang-3.2. Anything else will fail with this message.

            dxr-index.cpp: In function 'std::string {anonymous}::getQualifiedName(const clang::NamedDecl&)':
            dxr-index.cpp:93:13: error: 'const class clang::FunctionType' has no member named 'isConst'

5. The `tests/test_basic` directory contains a small tree which you can build
   an index for to test your build. `cd` into this directory and run `make`. If
   it successfully runs, your build is fine.

6. Then run `LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/path/to/dxr/trilite dxr-serve.py
   tests/test_basic/target` to start the server and browse the code. Without
   the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`, it will complain about not being able to find the
   `trilite` module when you do a search on the web interface. You can dispense
   with this requirement by installing the library globally on your machine: on
   Linux, move `libtrilite.so` to `/usr/local/lib`, then run `ldconfig`.


## Things To Do
_This is a short list of major things that could be done to improve DXR._

  * Refactor the database schema
     - Remove plugin specific tables
     - Provide data collection API for plugins (ie. no direct database access for plugins)
     - Optimize schema for search queries
        - Store extents as a blob in *_refs, types, functions, etc.
        - Use trilite for functions, types, macros, etc.
        - Store the transitive closure of indirect calls
     - Port search logic to new schema
  * Write proper search query parser
     - Space is a delimiter unless in dice `[ ]`, quotes `" "` or escaped `\ `
     - Assume grep syntax for terms, `path:`, `type:`, etc. (ie. `*` is literal, `\*` is kleene star)
     - Let quotes "text" be literal terms, `path:`, `function:`, etc.
     - egrep syntax for `regexp:`, `regex:` and `egrep:` ie. `*` is kleene star, `\*` is literal)
     - Prefix `+` implies case sensitivity (and fully qualified `type:`, `function:`, etc.)
     - Prefix `-` implies negation (prefix `-+` and `+-` is case sensitive negation)
     (Prefix `+`, `-`, `+-` and `-+` can be applied to terms, `path:`, `type:`, `egrep:`, etc.)
  * Minor refactoring of template interface to minimize size
     - Reuse annotations (i.e., don't store the same annotation for each line)
     - Reuse menus (i.e., don't store the same menu for each occurrence)
  * Minor UI fixes and cleanup
     - Colorize highlighted matches (highlight with classes, .m1, .m2, ..., use merge-extents)
     - Make the UI pretty
     - Add option in "Advanced" search to disable redirect (use cookies to remember setting)
     - Minimize template size (at 20 MiB for 20k lines, this is a real issue)
  * Add tree format version number to generated trees
    (Don't merge generated output with different formats, when configuring update cron job)
