This second tree acts as a smoke test for multi-instance building. We don't
perform any asserts against it (yet).

The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
This second tree acts as a smoke test for multi-instance building. We don't
perform any asserts against it (yet).

The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
This second tree acts as a smoke test for multi-instance building. We don't
perform any asserts against it (yet).

The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
This second tree acts as a smoke test for multi-instance building. We don't
perform any asserts against it (yet).

The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
This second tree acts as a smoke test for multi-instance building. We don't
perform any asserts against it (yet).

The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
This second tree acts as a smoke test for multi-instance building. We don't
perform any asserts against it (yet).

The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
This second tree acts as a smoke test for multi-instance building. We don't
perform any asserts against it (yet).

The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
This second tree acts as a smoke test for multi-instance building. We don't
perform any asserts against it (yet).

The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
The quick brown fox had extra lines to search so he could see what a long
file looks like.
