DXR Configuration
=================
_This document describes how to configure you DXR builds, as well as fully
documenting all configuration settings._

Configuration File Format
-------------------------
The configuration file is split into different sections, sections `DXR` and
`Template` are special, all other sections describes a tree for indexing.
Keys that must and can be specified for different sections are listed in
relevant section below.

The config file must be written in a format compatible with pythins builtin
[ConfigParser](http://docs.python.org/library/configparser.html), see python
documentation for details.


DXR Configuration
-----------------
_Configuration keys for the `DXR` section of the configuration file._

 - `target_folder`      Output directory (**required**)
 - `dxrroot`            Location of you DXR install
                        (defaults to directory of the executable)
 - `plugin_folder`      Plugin folder (default `<dxrroot>/plugins`)
 - `nb_jobs`            Number of jobs allowed (default `1`), note that this
                        value can be overwritten by the `-j` argument when
                        running `dxr-build.py`
 - `temp_folder`        Temporary folder (default `/tmp/dxr-temp`)
 - `log_folder`         Log folder (default `<temp_folder>/logs`)
 - `template`           Template folder, see templating.mkd
                        (default `<dxrroot>/templates/mozilla`)
 - `wwwroot`            Virtual root on deployment server (default `/`)
 - `enabled_plugins`    Enabled plugins (default `*`)
 - `disabled_plugins`   Disabled plugins (default ` `)
 - `directory_index`    Filename for directory index files
                        (default `.dxr-directory-index.html`)
 - `generated_date`     In RFC-822 format, also know as (RFC 2822),
                        You might want to overwrite this to get the same date
                        on all files! (defaults to time of execution)

(Refer to the Plugin Configuration section for plugin keys available here).

Notice, it's strongly recommended that you provide a sane **temporary folder**,
using `/tmp` (default) is not recommended. Creating a sub-directory under `/tmp`
is better, but preferable you'd want something on the same file system as the
`target_folder`.

Please note that `dxr-build.py` assume the plugins in `plugin_folder` are
already build and ready for use. If you specify your own plugin folder, the
top-level makefile will not do this for you. This setting is mainly here for
completion, it's not recommended for normal operation.

You might be tempted use `index.html` for `directory_index`, however, this is
**not** recommened as any indexed files with that name would hide the directory
index, which must be rather confusing to the users.
(Notice, this value will also be used in the generated `.htaccess` file).


Tree Configuration
------------------
_Configuration keys for tree sections of the configuration file._

Any section that is not named `DXR` or `Template` specifies a tree using the
keys listed below.

 - `source_folder`      Source folder (**required**)
 - `build_command`      Command for building sources (defaults to `make -j $jobs`)
                        Notice that `$jobs` will be replaced with `nb_jobs` as
                        provided in the config file or defined at runtime using
                        the `-j` argument.
 - `object_folder`      Folder where object files will be stored (**required**)
 - `log_folder`         Log folder (defaults `<config_log_folder>/<tree>`)
 - `temp_folder`        Tempoary folder for this tree, 
                        (defaults `<config_temp_folder>/<tree>`)
                        It's **not** recommend that this attribute is defined!
 - `enabled_plugins`    Plugins enabled in this tree (defaults `*`)
 - `disabled_plugins`   Plugins disabled in this tree (default `*`), note that
                        plugins disabled in the `DXR` section is also disabled.
 - `ignore_patterns`    Space separated list of Unix shell-style file patterns
                        to ignore, for information on the pattern style, see
                        [fnmatch](http://docs.python.org/library/fnmatch.html)

(Refer to the Plugin Configuration section for plugin keys available here).

Notice that is strongly recommended that you don't defined the `temp_folder`,
this feature is just here for completeness. If you define a `build_command`
without using `$jobs` somewhere in the command you will be warned, but build
will continue.


Template Configuration
----------------------
Configuration keys in the `Template` section will passed on the to the template
as properties in the `config` dictionary. Take a look at the documentation for
you template of choice, to see which keys are relevant here.

Usually this section is used to provide external links to source code
repositories, or information about which revision of the tree is being indexed.


Plugin Configuration
--------------------
Keys prefixed with `plugin_` in either a tree section or the DXR section will
read and stored on the `config` and `tree` objects, available to plugins.
These keys can be used to configure plugins, and some plugins might require
these in order to work. Plugin developers are advised to name their
configuration keys as `plugin_<plugin-name>_<key>`, refer to Plugins.mkd for
more details on plugin development.

Plugin keys listed below can be defined in the tree sections of the
configuration file.

 - `plugin_hg_hgweb`          Location of hg-web installation for this tree.
                              (Assumed to have default url layout)
 - `plugin_hg_section`        Section text (defaults to `Mercurial`)
 - `plugin_buglink_name`      Name of the projects bug tracker installation.
                              (eg. `bugzilla.mozilla.org`)
 - `plugin_buglink_bugzilla`  URL pattern for buglinks, %s will be replaced with
                              the bug number, this key must include `http://`
