Deployment of DXR
=================
_This document details how to deploy DXR for a project._

DXR is designed to generated a source code index for one more trees offline, preferably on a dedicated build server, the generated index is then uploaded
to a webserver for hosting.


Generating a Source Code Index
------------------------------
To build a source code index you will need a project configuration file. Notice
that this configuration file may contain one or more source trees. The
configuration file details one DXR deployment. For information one the
configuration file see configuration.mkd.

When you have configured your DXR deployment you can generate the source code
index using `dxr-build.py -f <config-file>`. This will generate server scripts
and source code index for all trees in the configuration file.

If you wish to build the source code index for source trees individually, you
can do this using `dxr-build.py --file <config-file> --tree <tree>`. This will
only generated source code index for the specified tree. This can be used to
distribute the build operation to one build server for each source tree.

Using `dxr-build.py --file <config-file> --server` the server scripts will be
generated, see "The Generated Source Code Index" section below for details on
the generated source code index.

DXR have the following dependencies on the build servers

 - sqlite (`>= 3.7.4`)
 - python (`>= 2.5`)
 - jinja2 (`>= 2.4`)
 - pygments (`>= 1.4`)
 - flex (`>= 2.5`)
 - clang (`>= 3.0`)


The Generated Source Code Index
-------------------------------
The generated index will be stored in `target_folder` (see configuration.mkd),
when `dxr-build.py` have successfully built the index. The generated index
consists of a `server/` folder and a folder for each tree with the name of the
tree (as given in a tree section, see configuration.mkd).

The `server/` folder contains serverside logic, templates and other things
necessary to host the source code index. The tree folders contains index and
pre-render files for given source tree.

As mentioned in the "Building Source Code Index" section above, you can build
the index for each tree independent of the other trees. If you do this the
`target_folder` will only contain a tree folder for the desired tree.
You must combine this tree with the server folder and other tree folder listed
in the configuration file. But you are free to distribute the index generation
for trees as you see fit, as long as you combine the result afterwards.


Deployment of Generated Index to Webserver
------------------------------------------
When you have generated a source code index using your configuration and
uploaded it to the folder where the virtual root is `wwwroot` as specified in
you configuration file. You must move and rename the `server/dot-htaccess` to
`.htaccess` in the folder for your virtual root.

DXR have the following dependencies on the webserver

 - sqlite (`>= 3.7.4`)
 - python (`>= 2.5`)
 - jinja2 (`>= 2.4`)
 - apache with `mod_rewrite`


