DXR Development
===============
_This document details how to get started with DXR development._

Using Vagrant and Puppet you can quickly get started with DXR development in a
VM. The config files and puppet manifests in ./puppet/ may also be a useful
reference for setting up DXR on your own server.

To begin, you will need Vagrant and Virtual box. More about that
(on Vagrant's website)[https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads]. Once both
of those are installed you're ready to begin. Make sure you have the
necessary submodules by running `git submodule update --init` and execute
the following:

```
# from the dxr root
vagrant up # requires password for setting up shared folders
vagrant ssh

# now you're inside the VM

cd dxr/
make
cd tests/test_basic/
make

# run the server
../../bin/dxr-serve.py --port 8000 target
# Server should be running on 33.33.33.77:8000.

# all done? ctrl+c to interrupt the server
exit

# back on the host; shut it down
vagrant halt
```

The repository on your host machine is mirrored over to the VM via Shared
Folders. Changes you make outside the VM will be instantly available inside the
VM and vice-versa, so you can edit locally with whatever you are used to using
and run the code inside inside the VM.

Customization
-------------

You may find it convenient to edit your local `/etc/hosts` file and add a line
to alias the VMs IP to something more memorable, like `33.33.33.77  dxr`.

If you need to modify the Vagrant configuration, tear off the local vagrant
config file in the project root:
`cp vagrantconfig_local.yaml-dest vagrantconfig_local.yaml` and edit as
necessary. The .gitignore file will safely keep your changes out of version
control. This is particularly useful for boosting the amount of RAM allocated
to the virtual machine or debugging puppet changes.
