Automated Testing of DXR
========================
_This document describes the automated testing framework for DXR._


Writing Tests for DXR
---------------------
DXR supports two kinds of tests:

1. A lightweight sort with a single file worth of C++ code. This kind stores
   the C++ source as a Python string within a subclass of `SingleFileTestCase`.
   At test time, it creates a DXR instance on disk in a temp folder, builds it,
   and makes assertions about it. If the `should_delete_instance` class
   variable is truthy, it then deletes the instance. If you want to examine the
   instance manually for troubleshooting, set this to `False`.

2. A heavier sort of test which consists of a full DXR instance on disk.
   `ignore-test` is an example. Within these instances are one or more Python
   files containing subclasses of `DxrInstanceTestCase` which express the
   actual tests. These instances can be built like any other using
   `dxr-build.py`, in case you want to do manual exploration.


Running the Tests
-----------------
To run all the tests run this from the root of the DXR repository:

    make test

To run just the tests in `tests/test_functions.py`, do this:

    # Make sure $LD_LIBRARY_PATH points to the trilite folder. Then...
    nosetests tests/test_functions.py

To run just the tests from a single class, do this:

    # Make sure $LD_LIBRARY_PATH points to the trilite folder. Then...
    nosetests tests/test_functions.py:ReferenceTests

To run a single test, do this:

    # Make sure $LD_LIBRARY_PATH points to the trilite folder. Then...
    nosetests tests/test_functions.py:ReferenceTests.test_functions

If you have trouble, make sure you didn't mistranscribe any colons or periods.
